What's new in .NET 9 Preview 1 (#39406)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/whats-new/dotnet-9.md

---
title: What's new in .NET 9
description: Learn about the new .NET features introduced in .NET 9.
titleSuffix: ""
ms.date: 02/13/2024
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: gewarren
author: gewarren
---
# What's new in .NET 9

Learn about the new features in .NET 9 and find links to further documentation.

> .NET 9, the successor to [.NET 8](dotnet-8.md), has a special focus on cloud-native apps and performance. It will be [supported for 18 months](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) as a short-term support (STS) release. You can [download .NET 9 here](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET 9, the successor to [.NET 8](dotnet-8.md), has a special focus on cloud-native apps and performance. It will be [supported for 18 months](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/platform/support/policy/dotnet-core) as a standard-term support (STS) release. You can [download .NET 9 here](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/9.0).
```

While it's not possible to implement efficient `O(log n)` priority updates in the existing collection, the new `PriorityQueue.Remove` method makes it possible to emulate priority updates (albeit at `O(n)` time):

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/dotnet-9/csharp/Collections.cs" id="UpdatePriority":::

This method unblocks users who want to implement graph algorithms in contexts where asymptotic performance isn't a blocker. (Such contexts include education and prototyping.) For example, here's a [toy implementation of Dijkstra's algorithm](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/16cb41496d595e2568574cfe11c763d5e05136c9/src/libraries/System.Collections/tests/Generic/PriorityQueue/PriorityQueue.Tests.Dijkstra.cs#L46-L76) that uses the new API.

### Cryptography

#### CryptographicOperations.HashData() method

> Since .NET 5, some static ["one-shot"](../../standard/security/cryptography-model.md#one-shot-apis) implementations of hash functions and related functions have been implemented. These APIs include <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.SHA256.HashData%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.HMACSHA256.HashData%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. One-shot APIs are preferable to use because they can provide the best possible performance and reduce or eliminate allocations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET includes several static ["one-shot"](../../standard/security/cryptography-model.md#one-shot-apis) implementations of hash functions and related functions. These APIs include <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.SHA256.HashData%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Security.Cryptography.HMACSHA256.HashData%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>. One-shot APIs are preferable to use because they can provide the best possible performance and reduce or eliminate allocations.
```
